Welcome my friend to today's
lecture on active and passive voice.
We are about to make the
complicated, ridiculously clear on
this concept with this tutorial.
All right, my friends.
Let's talk about active and passive voice.
These are two fundamental
ways to structure sentences in
English, distinguishing whether
the subject performs the action.
Active or receives it.
Passive understanding and correctly
using both voices is crucial for
clarity, emphasis, and stylistic
variation in your writing and speaking,
especially in competitive exams,
like your exam concept, explanation
in the active voice, the subject of
the sentence performs the action.
The structure is typically
subject plus verb, plus object.
For example, the friend wrote the
essay Here, friend is the subject
performing wrote on the object.
Essay.
Simple direct, no confusion in the passive
voice, the subject receives the action.
The structure is typically object
plus form of to be plus past
participant of verb plus by plus agent.
For example, the essay was
written by the friend here.
Essay is the subject.
Receiving was written and friend
is the agent introduced by buy.
The choice between active and
passive voice often depends
on what you want to emphasize.
Active voice is generally more
direct, clear and concise.
It's usually preferred for most
academic and professional writing.
Passive voice is used when the
doer of the action is unknown,
unimportant, or when the action itself
is more important than the doer.
It's like, who cares who did it?
Just that it was done.
Real world relevance.
Now, why is this important for you?
For officers, clear and precise
communication is paramount.
Understanding, active and passive
voice helps you draft unambiguous
reports, emails, and legal documents.
This ensures crystal clarity in financial
transactions and client interactions.
Think of it as avoiding any lost
in translation moments with money,
breakdown of question types.
Questions on active and passive voice in
your competitive exams, primarily test
your ability to transform sentences.
Identify the correct voice
or correct related errors.
Here's the typical breakdown you'll see.
Voice transformation, 60 to 70%.
This is the most common type.
A sentence is given in one voice
and you convert it to the other.
This involves changing subject
object, verb form, and sometimes
adding or removing by plus agent.
It's a sentence makeover Really.
Error detection or correction, 15 to
20% sentences come with errors related
to incorrect or awkward voice usage.
You need to identify the error or
choose the correctly rephrased option.
Be a grammar detective, my friend.
Fill in the blanks, 10 to
15% sentences with a blank.
You must choose the correct verb
form, active or passive that
fits the context and grammar.
Sentence improvement or replacement five
to 10% a part of a sentence is underlined.
You choose the best alternative from
options often involving a voice change
for better clarity or conciseness.
Make your sentences shine.
Formulas and tricks.
No complex math here, my friend, but
definite rules and clever tricks for
active and passive voice for active
to passive transformation rules.
One.
Identify SVO, subject verb
object in the active sentence.
Two, swap positions.
Object becomes the passive subject.
Active subject becomes the passive object.
Often with buy.
Three change verb form.
Use the correct auxiliary
verb to be is MR was.
Were be being plus past
participant V three, always four.
Remove agent optional.
If the doer agent is unknown.
Unimportant or obvious, you can omit it.
Less clutter, sometimes 10
specific auxiliary verbs.
This is your cheat sheet.
Simple.
Present.
Is or Am.
Or are.
Plus we three.
Example is written.
Simple past was, or plus we
three Example was written Simple
Future will be plus we three.
Example will be written,
present, continuous.
Is or Am.
Or are plus being.
Plus we three.
Example is being written
past, continuous was or were.
Plus being, plus V three.
Example was being
written, present Perfect.
Has or have plus been plus V three.
Example has been written past
Perfect, had plus been plus V three.
Example had been written Future Perfect
will have plus Bean plus V three.
Example will have been written.
Modals Modal plus B plus we three.
Example can be written.
Remember these, they
are your best friends.
Tricks for quick
identification or conversion.
Look for buy.
Passive voice often has the
agent introduced by buy.
It's a clue, but not always
present form of to be plus V three.
This is the absolute signature of
passive voice, if you see is amr,
et cetera, followed by a V three.
It's passive guaranteed
subject, action, relationship.
Ask yourself, is the subject doing
the action active or receiving it?
Simple logic.
Transitive verbs only.
Only verbs that take an object.
Transitive verbs can become passive
in transitive verbs like sleep, arrive
cannot, don't even try my friend.
It's a grammar no-go zone.
Methods of solving.
Here are your step-by-step methods to
ace active and passive voice questions.
One, identify the voice first.
Determine if the sentence
is active or passive.
Check the subject, action, relationship,
and words structure form of two B.
Plus past participant for passive.
Two.
Identify SVO for active to passive.
If converting active to passive, clearly
identify subject, verb, and object.
Three.
Identify.
OVS for passive to active.
If converting passive to active, pinpoint
the object, which is the passive subject,
the verb, and the agent if present,
as it becomes the new active subject.
Four.
Apply transformation rules.
Based on identified voice and target
voice, apply rules for subject
object positions and verb form
paying close attention to tens.
Five.
Check for auxiliary verbs.
Ensure the correct to be form
is used according to original
tens and new subject six.
Use past participant.
Always use the V three form of
the main verb in passive voice.
No excuses.
Seven, handle the agent.
Include bi plus agent if important.
In passive, if converting passive to
active, make the agent the new subject.
Eight.
Review for grammatical correctness
and meaning after conversion.
Read the new sentence.
Does it sound correct?
Does it keep the original meaning
and does it flow naturally?
A quick check can save your day.
Shortcuts and smart techniques
want to be super efficient.
My friend.
Here are some quick tricks.
Quick voice check.
See a form of two b isr, et
cetera, immediately followed
by a past participant V three.
It's almost certainly passive.
If not, probably active Subject action
test is the subject, doing the action
or receiving it, active or passive.
That's your answer,
transitive verb requirement.
Remember, only transitive verbs.
Verbs with a direct object can be
converted to passive int transitive
verbs are off limits for passive voice.
Eliminate options in multi-choice.
Quickly remove options that have wrong
verb forms or change the original meaning.
Smart thinking.
Focus on the main verb, identify
the main verb and its stents.
This guides your choice of auxiliary to
be and the past participant by home test.
Can you logically add by whom or by what
after the verb, and get a sensible answer.
If yes, it's likely passive
or can be made passive.
Try it.
It's a fun trick.
Common mistakes and misconceptions.
All right, let's learn from other slipups.
My friends.
Beware of these common mistakes.
Confusing, passive with past tense.
Passive voice doesn't mean past tense.
The two B word can be in any tense.
Example is being built is present.
Continuous passive.
Don't get confused.
Incorrect auxiliary verb usage.
Using the wrong to be form for tense
or subject example, the book is wrote
instead of The book is written, small
mistakes, big impact, missing or
incorrect, past participant forgetting
V three or using V two instead.
Example, the door was broke
instead of the door was broken.
Unnecessary use of passive voice,
overusing passive voice when active would
be clearer and more concise, especially
when the doer is known and important.
Be direct when you can.
Changing meaning during conversion
never alter the original meaning
or emphasis of the sentence.
During conversion, the essence must
remain attempting to pacify int
transitive verbs, trying to convert
sentences with int transitive verbs.
No direct object.
Example sleep arrive into passive
voice is grammatically incorrect.
It simply doesn't work.
Incorrect placement of
by plus agent misplacing.
This phrase can make your
sentence sound awkward or unclear.
Keep it neat.
W Framework summary.
Let's wrap up with our quick W framework.
What active voice subject performs
passive voice subject receives?
Why, for clear communication, emphasis,
and stylistic variety in your writing when
active for directness, passive, when doer
is unknown, unimportant, or action is key,
where applied in academic professional
documents and your competitive exams.
Who every friend, writer, journalist,
anyone needing precise English.
How?
By understanding subject verb
relationships, verb forms, auxiliaries
participants, and transformation rules.
Practice makes perfect my friend.
Fully worked out.
Examples, time for some real
world application, my friends.
Let's tackle these examples.
Example, one question, choose the
correct passive voice, transformation
of the following sentence.
Active voice.
The friends completed the project options.
A. The project was
completed by the friends.
B. The project is
C. The project has been completed by the
friends D. The friends were completed.
The project Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Solution.
Step one, identify SVO.
Inactive voice.
Subject, the friends verb completed.
Simple, past tense, object the project.
Step two, apply.
Passive voice rules the object.
The project becomes the new subject.
Completed simple past transforms
to was or were plus we three.
Since project is singular, it's was
completed the active subject, the
friends becomes the agent by the friends.
Step three, form the passes sentence.
Result.
The project was completed by the friends.
Step four, evaluate A. The project
was completed by the friends
correct matches our transformation.
B. The project is
completed by the friends.
Incorrect, tense, present.
C. The project has been
completed by the friends.
Incorrect tense, present.
Perfect.
D. The friends were completed the project.
Incorrect structure and meaning.
Correct.
Answer.
A good job, my friend.
Example two question.
Convert the following sentence
into active voice, passive voice.
The new policy will be announced
by the management tomorrow.
Options.
A, the management will announce
the new policy tomorrow.
B. The management announces
C. The new policy is announced
by the management tomorrow.
D. The management announced
the new policy tomorrow.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Solution.
Step one, identify OVS in passive voice.
Object, passive subject.
The new policy verb will be announced.
Future simple passive
agent by the management.
Step two, apply active voice rules.
Agent the management becomes the
active subject will be announced.
Future simple passive transforms
to will plus base form, so
will announce passive subject.
The new policy becomes the active object.
Tomorrow stays put.
Step three, form the active sentence.
Result, the management will
announce the new policy tomorrow.
Step four, evaluate options.
A, the management will announce
the new policy tomorrow, correct.
Perfectly transformed.
B. The management announces
the new policy tomorrow.
Incorrect, tense.
Simple present.
C. The new policy is announced
by the management tomorrow.
Still passive, incorrect tense.
D. The management announced
the new policy tomorrow.
Incorrect tense.
Simple past, correct answer.
A fantastic example.
Three question.
Identify the sentence that
is in passive voice options.
A. She sings beautiful songs.
B, the dog chased the cat.
C. The letter was written by him.
D, they are playing football.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Solution.
Step one, understand active
versus passive voice.
Active subject performs action.
Subject plus verb plus object,
passive object, plus form of two B
plus past participant plus by agent.
Step two, analyze each sentence A.
She sings beautiful songs.
Subject, she performs, sings.
Active.
B, the dog chased the cat.
Subject.
The dog performs chased, active.
C. The letter was written by him.
Subject, the letter receives was
written form of two B plus V three.
Agent by him passive.
D, they are playing football.
Subject, they perform are playing active.
Step three, select the passive sentence.
Sentence, c. Clearly fits
the passive voice structure.
Correct answer my friend.
You've got this.
Thank you.
See you in the next lecture.